The Joe Rogan experience.
What is your take on WikiLeaks and Julian
Assange?
What happened with the, with his arrest and all this stuff that just went down?
Um,
I think poses a great threat to our freedom of the press
and to our freedom of speech.
We look at what happened under the previous administration under Obama.
You know, they were trying to find ways to go after a Sanje and WikiLeaks,
but ultimately they chose not to seek to extradite him or
charge him because they recognized what a slippery slope that
begins when you have a government in a position to,
uh, levy criminal charges and consequences against someone who's publishing
information or saying things that the government doesn't want you to say,
the government does in sharing information,
the government government doesn't want you to share.
And so the fact that the Trump administration has chosen, um,
to ignore that fact to ignore how important it is that we uphold our
freedoms, freedom of the press and freedom of speech and go after him.
It has a very chilling effect on both journalists and
publishers. And you can look to both those in the traditional media,
but also those in new media, uh, and also on, on every one of us as America.
And it was, it was, uh, kind of a warning call saying, look,
what happened to this guy? It could happen to,
you could happen to any one of us.
Well, it's very transparent too,
because there's no real compelling crime for them to be going after him the way
they are. There's not one thing that stands out and the latest one is hacking,
right?
What's not even hacking it's conspiracy conspiracy charges.
That doesn't make any sense that they would spend that much time going after
that guy for those charges. Yeah.
It's obvious and very transparent that there's another alter motive.
That ulterior motive is that he leaked a bunch of things that were incredibly
embarrassing. That's right.
And not only that, but I think it was secretary Pompeo,
secretary of state who said that they wanted to
designate Wiki leaks and assigned as a foreign intelligence
agency. So once you do that,
then you're talking about a whole different category.
So they're pushing out information once again,
that the government didn't want pushed out. And if the government then says, oh,
well, now we're going to reclassify you as a foreign intelligence agency.
Then there's a whole different set of rules of engagement that apply there.
Then you're no longer protected under, uh, you know, the freedoms that we hold,
dear, the freedom of the press.
It's just such a disgusting way of framing things like, you know,
he's on a foreign intelligence agent. Yeah. He's,
he's a guy that got information and released it to the general
public that the government wanted to keep private. It's really that simple.
Yeah. Um, Edward Snowden. Yep.
Was it similar, similar situation, similar situation? I don't think,
um, I don't think we, you know, I, I remembered the very day that I woke up,
uh, in DC,
looked at my phone and started looking through the headlines and saw those
headlines about how the NSA was mass surveilling.
All of us in collecting our phone records,
collecting our cell phone records and Verizon at T and T T-Mobile.
And I was, I was shocked. So that was something that Snowden uncovered,
uh, and released, uh,
something that I don't know that even as members of Congress who would have been
aware of. So now that we were aware of it, then, Hey, we can take action to,
to close those loopholes, to change those policies,
to protect our civil liberties,
to protect our fourth amendment constitutional rights as Americans,
but was the NSA going to disclose that information voluntarily on their own?
Absolutely not.
No. We would have had no idea we would had suspicions, but then again,
we'd have tinfoil hats on. And there was a gentleman who was,
who left the NSA very early on, uh,
hill was that was his last name,
but he was one of the first ones to discuss this.
This is post nine 11 when they first started doing it.
But Snowden was the guy that really made it abundantly clear to everybody
that not only are they doing that, but they're also lying about it.
And even Obama was talking, oh, we just collected metadata metadata. No,
you're not reading messages. You can do anything.
This is just not an accurate assessment of what was going on. No,
and it was outrageous to me.
And you had a, I think he was the,
the director of the department of national intelligence at that time,
James clapper,
who sat before a committee in the United States Senate and blatantly
lied. He was asked very directly, are you collecting this information?
And he said, no, are you collecting this information on American citizens?
And he said, no.
And yet he's somebody who you see on TV almost every day as
an expert in this country, without any consequence lying to the American.
And I think that if you pull the American people and you ask us to vote on it,
you,
I w I think it would be a gigantic landslide victory for Edward
Snowden to be exonerated and brought back to the United States.
We've got this guy he's in Russia now hiding, like,
it's crazy that he lives over there and he can't leave.
And if he does come over here,
they're going to immediately going to lock him up. Yeah.
What would you do as president?
One thing that I think I want to answer your question,
but one thing that I think, um, speaks to the Dane,
the dangerous nature of this culture that we're living in now, uh,
uh, the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer had done an interview on, I dunno,
one of the major networks. And I think he was,
I think he was talking about Trump when he said, be careful,
you don't want to challenge the intelligence agencies,
basically putting out that threat. I don't know if,
if you can pull that exact quote up,
but I was shocked when I heard him say that,
because it basically makes out that these intelligence agencies are their own
separate branch of government. And that if any,
one of us as Americans or elected leaders in this country dares to challenge or
exercise oversight over them,
then we will suffer the consequences. Uh, so as president,
I would change that culture of leadership that,
that leadership starts at the top.
And when you have people in positions of leadership who continue to
perpetuate that culture of unaccountability of complete
disrespect and disregard for the constitution of,
of not understanding that, yes, we need to keep our country safe.
We also need to protect our constitutional rights.
This is not a choice between the two, which is so often how it's framed. Well,
if you want to protect us against terrorists,
you've got to give up all of your rights as Americans and your civil liberties
and your privacies, and, and just let these intelligence agencies run, uh,
run free and run rough shot over us. Uh,
and so that's the kind of change in leadership that all bring.
There's a whole host of policies that, that we can look at. Uh, for example,
with the Patriot act, the Patriot act is up for reauthorization in Congress.
This year,
there have been different sections of it that we have worked to try to change
and reform to make it so that agencies like the NSA cannot collect our
private information as Americans, without a warrant,
but there is far more that has to be done, uh,
to undo the damage that,
that we've already seen the abuse of our,
of our rights and privacies that we've already seen.
Did you ever listen to that Kennedy speech about secret societies?
Kennedy had a fantastic speech, uh,
before he was assassinated where he was discussing this very thing. And, uh,
he apparently, uh,
had notions of disbanding, the CIA, and, um,
he was very concerned with the power of people like, uh, JAG or Hoover chorus,
and that this was all happening while he was president.
And he felt like there were people that were involved in these secret societies
and these secret meetings, and that there was a lot of conspiracy going on.
And he thought that the very idea was repugnant. It's a fantastic speech.
The president and the press is what it's like. It's got a title,
it's a fantastic speech. I'll check it out. Um,
but this has always been the real concern that, uh,
people have that when you give someone the ability to surveil
the general population, when you give,
they're going to use some of that information to aid in their allies and to work
against their enemies. Yeah.
That is, I mean, it's a valid concerns. And I mean, this is what,
unfortunately we've already seen.
This is what has been revealed by some of that information that was released by
Snowden and how, for example, the Pfizer court,
as we have it now is a secret court that has been, um,
has been abused for that purpose,
allowing for that surveillance of Americans violating our civil liberties and
privacies. And that's something that we've got to fix that whole,
that whole Pfizer court from top to bottom and how the different judges are
appointed to people. It's, it's basically, it's a, it's a,
a secret court that was appointed, uh, I believe, uh,
created back in the seventies with the initial objective of
providing oversight over the executive branch, um,
mass surveillance that was happening at that time or illegal surveillance that
was happening at that time. Unfortunately, uh,
especially since nine 11.
Now you have this Pfizer court that is both used to
approve surveillance and surveillance programs on, uh,
foreign targets, uh,
but also on Americans as well. Uh, the,
one of the many problems with this is it's a secret court where
you have a judge and you have someone representing the government,
whether it be one of the Intel agencies or the DOD or whatever,
coming before this court and making their case to try to get this warrant
approved by the judge.
There is no advocate there for the people.
There is no civil liberties or privacy advocate there. Uh, it's,
it's a one sided conversation. Uh,
and the information being provided by the government is the only information
that's being given to the judge. Uh, so this is one of the big problems there,
and, and we've seen over decades now, and especially since after nine 11,
that there have been very, very, very few, um,
applications for these surveillance warrants that have been rejected by the
judges. So, you know,
a rubber stamping of these applications for warrants is,
is really what appears to be happening. Um, you know,
there's a few different ways that we're looking at trying to fix this.
There are some who are arguing, uh, to,
to take away the Pfizer court completely.
One of the concerns about that is that if we do that,
then there has to be some other entity in place to exercise oversight over
the executive branch and not allow them to, um,
conduct this surveillance, you know, Willy nilly as, as they please.
Um, so it's figuring out exactly what,
what are the best reforms to meet that objective of providing that,
that oversight making it so that those warrants are given,
um, you know,
as needed and making sure that all in all the information is being presented.
And again, that, that Pfizer court was initially put in place to go after, uh,
take, to get warrants, to conduct surveillance on foreign targets, um,
not Americans.
And that's been one of the biggest problems here with a lot of this mass
surveillance is it's collecting our information as Americans illegally and
unconstitutionally,
because you can't do that unless you go through this process and you actually
get a warrant based on evidence.
What would you do about Julian Assange? What would you do about Edward Snowden?
Uh, as far as what I'm doing, dropping the charges.
President of the world right.
Now dropping the charges.
He dropped the charges, but yeah,
they're still going after him for something from Sweden, uh,
in Juliana Sonja's case.
And so Edward Snowden would be the only one that you would be able to write,
because unless you would influence.
The charges that the Trump administration is, um, uh, Right,
exactly.
And it remains to be seen whether or not they will push for extradition.
There was another charge that was, I think it was today. The Sweden decided to,
uh, go after him again for some sexual thing.
They had decided to go after many, many years ago. Um,
Edward Snowden,
what he's doing right now is essentially living day to day,
hold up in Russia,
in hiding and w the charges against him stem from,
again, this illegal operation that he, in many ways,
he's very patriotic. I mean, he let us know and at great costs. Yeah.
So you would give him a pardon. Yeah.
Yeah. And I think address, we've got to address why he did the things,
the way that he did them. And you hear the same thing from Chelsea Manning,
how there is not,
there's not an actual channel for whistleblowers,
like them to bring forward information that exposes
agregious abuses of our constitutional rights and liberties, um,
period. I mean, there's,
there was not a channel for that to happen in a real way.
And that's why they ended up taking the path that they did and suffering the
conflict.